Add `@next/mdx` to Next.js getting started guide (#2040)
mdx-js/mdx: docs/docs/getting-started.server.mdx

  <summary>Expand example</summary>

  ```js path="next.config.js"
  import nextMDX from '@next/mdx'

  const withMDX = nextMDX({
    // By default only the .mdx extension is supported.
    extension: /\.mdx?$/,
    options: {/* providerImportSource: …, otherOptions… */}
  })

>   export default withMDX({

Reviewer: I believe Next itself, on pages, asks to first assign to a const, and the export default, so that there’s a name attached.
Should we do the same, or is it fine?

Author: I don’t really understand what you mean, but this syntax is very similar to [this paragraph on using MDX](https://nextjs.org/docs/advanced-features/using-mdx#setup-nextmdx-in-nextjs).

Reviewer: I believe there’s a warning in Next.js for:

```js
export default () => {}
```

It wants you to assign to a name:

```js
const SomePage = () => {}
export default SomePage
```

That is to attach a name. I think that’s good here too.

Author: This isn’t a page, it’s the configuration file (`next.config.js`).

Reviewer: I understand it is not a page.
I use Next.js recommendation as an example.
It is still good to name things.
My assumption is that errors will occur and a name will improve stack traces.

    // Support MDX files as pages:
    pageExtensions: ['md', 'mdx', 'tsx', 'ts', 'jsx', 'js'],
  })
  ```
</details>

> [Next.js](https://nextjs.org) have their own package for supporting MDX.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Next.js](https://nextjs.org) has its own package to support MDX.
```

How about this?

> Install and configure [`@next/mdx`][@next/mdx].

Reviewer: I was under the impression that you still need `@mdx-js/loader` as well?

Author: It depends on your package manager. It’s a peer dependency. I [created an issue to propose properly migrating Next.js to MDX 2](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/issues/36888). This includes `@mdx-js/loader` to dependencies, but it was [moved to a discussion](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/discussions/36890) and has already moved to page 2, so I don’t think they want to prioritize this.

Since it’s a peer dependency, it’s installed implicitly when using newer npm versions, but not when using older npm versions or yarn.

Reviewer: I believe newer npm versions require top-level users to install peer deps? 🤔 I believe in the past it didn’t, but now you do?

Author: No, it’s the other way around. Maybe you’re confused because MDX [.npmrc](https://github.com/mdx-js/mdx/blob/main/.npmrc) uses legacy peer deps?

Reviewer: Weird. Not sure why I thought that.

Legacy peer deps are needed to show warnings but prevent errors. Many packages define incorrect peer ranges, and beta React version don’t work with peer ranges. npm 7 prevents them from being used.

Author: Should we mention on MDX 1 here though? I believe this is mostly a guide for users who are either configuring Next.js with MDX in a new project, or adding MDX support to an existing Next.js project. In both cases I think the focus should be MDX 2.

Reviewer: nah, this is good!

There is no need to configure your JSX runtime as React is already set up.

> The React provider can be configured in [`pages/_app.js`](https://nextjs.org/docs/advanced-features/custom-app).

Reviewer: Reference link w/ definition at bottom is the preference for most links

Reviewer: I don’t think Next can work with Preact or something else, right?
Should `@mdx-js/react` be installed?
Should it be called React provider or MDX provider? MDX provider for React?

Author: Afaik Next only works with React. I think naming it `MDX provider` makes sense.

> In order to use it, you will have to configure the `providerImportSource` as

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to use it, you need to configure the `providerImportSource` as
```

well.

<details>
  <summary>Expand example</summary>

  ```js path="next.config.js"
  import nextMDX from '@next/mdx'

  const withMDX = nextMDX({
    // By default only the .mdx extension is supported.
    extension: /\.mdx?$/,

>     options: { providerImportSource: '@mdx-js/react',  /* otherOptions… */}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    options: {providerImportSource: '@mdx-js/react',  /* otherOptions… */}
```

  })

  export default withMDX({
    // Support MDX files as pages:
    pageExtensions: ['md', 'mdx', 'tsx', 'ts', 'jsx', 'js'],
  })

>   ```

Reviewer: Is it needed to repeat this? Maybe ``With the same `next.config.js` as above``?

Author: It’s different. It includes the `providerImportSource` option.

Reviewer: Perhaps a diff would be clearer, to focus on only adding the provider import source?
Not adamant about this, go with what you want.

  ```jsx path="pages/_app.js"
  import {MDXProvider} from '@mdx-js/react'

> 
>   import {Header} from '../components/Header'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  import {Header} from '../components/Header.js'
```

Given that node moves towards with-extension, maybe include it here too?
I also don’t think the extra blank line is needed?

Author: Next.js examples don’t use extensions, so I think it’s best to mimic that.

I usually keep a blank line between builtin, third party, and local module imports. In this particular case removing it is fine with me.

Reviewer: We require ESM and they don’t, maybe that’s why?
I quite strongly prefer sticking with ESM/Node.js here and not document Webpack-specific forgiving features.

  const components = {

>     h1: Header;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    h1: Header
```

  }

>   export default function App({ Component, pageProps }) {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  export default function App({Component, pageProps}) {
```

    return (
      <MDXProvider components={components}>
        <Component {...pageProps} />
      </MDXProvider>
    )
  }
  ```
</details>

> See [Using MDX with Next.js][next-mdx] for more details.

Reviewer: Should there also be a link for App in Next.js?

Author: It’s linked right above the details. I don’t think it needs to be linked here again.

*   If you’re getting errors integrating MDX, see
    [§ Troubleshooting MDX][trouble] or [§ Support][support]

> [@next/mdx]: https://github.com/vercel/next.js/tree/canary/packages/next-mdx

Reviewer: Should we link to the Canary branch? Is that the default branch?

Author: Yep, it’s their default branch.
